# 1. How can I contribute?
First, please read the
[Linux From Scratch Editor's Manual](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/LFS-EDITORS-GUIDE.html)
as it contains some good info. Some info is missing and some is LFS-specific.

# 2. Basics
This project is primarily written in Docbook XML. Most issues and updates
pertain to the XML that gets put into the final text of the rendered book. If
you wish to contribute somehow but don't know XML and/or don't want to write
any XML, you can make issues over on
[issues](https://github.com/glfs-book/slfs/issues).

If you are feeling more savvy, familarize yourself with the book, how it's
written, where essential files are located, then make an update as you see fit,
and make a PR. This bit requires a more in-depth explanation and where it
really diverges from the LFS Editor's Manual. If you are a BLFS editor, editing
this book will not be too different. Read sections 3.1.2, 3.2, and 3.3 for
SLFS specific information.

# 3. For the savvy
## 3.1. Where things are located
### 3.1.1. Internal files and directories
Before starting with the main bulk of the book and what people will be reading,
we need to cover the files and directories of the source of the book that are
more internal but nonetheless essential.

At the root of the source, you'll find these files and directories:
- `.github/workflows/`
- `archive/`
- `images/`
- `kernel-config/`
- `patches/`
- `stylesheets/`
- `template/`
- `.gitattributes`
- `.gitignore`
- `INSTALL.md`
- `Makefile`
- `expand_date`
- `general.ent`
- `generate-doc-stub.py`
- `git-version.sh`
- `gnome.ent`
- `obfuscate.sh`
- `packages.ent`
- `tidy.conf`

#### 3.1.1.1. `.github/workflows/`
This directory contains YAML files that are used by Github CIs to render the
book and put it up on the SLFS website hosted on Github. It rarely needs
updating.
#### 3.1.1.2. `archive/`
This directory contains XML files that are no longer considered needed or
useful to be included in the book, but are moved there in case they need to be
brought back or for the sake of study. Files that don't conform to new
standards don't need to be updated unless they are being brought back into the
book.
#### 3.1.1.3. `images/`
This directory contains images used by the book, ie. for the note, important,
warning, and tip boxes, as well as for the favicon and image that shows up at
the top of the home page. Rarely needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.1.4. `kernel-config/`
This directory contains the needed files to generate kernel configuration
blocks you'd find in pages the require you to change the configuration in your
kernel. Update as needed.
#### 3.1.1.5. `patches/`
This directory contains patches used in the book, as well as older patches for
historical purposes, in case someone needs the older patches, and for the sake
of study. Update as needed and should keep up with newer versions, but old
versions must also stay.
#### 3.1.1.6. `stylesheets/`
This directory contains the Docbook XML XSLT stylesheets needed to generate
HTML from the XML source. It also contains the CSS files needed to make the
book look prettier. Very rarely needs updating.
#### 3.1.1.7. `template/`
This directory contains templates that most pages in this book are based on,
mainly packages. It has documentation that can help you figure out what you
want and don't want. May need to get updated if standards change.
#### 3.1.1.8. `.gitattributes`
This file is a standard git file that gives attributes to matching files.
Rarely needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.1.9. `.gitignore`
This file is a standard git file that ignores matching files from entering the
git history and tree. For instance, `conditional.ent` and `version.ent`
generated by `git-version.sh` are ignored but may exist locally if you render
the book. Very rarely needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.1.10. `INSTALL.md`
This file details what packages you will need in order to render the book
yourself. Rarely needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.1.11. `Makefile`
This file is the Makefile used by **make** in order to render the book. Rarely
needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.1.12. `expand_date`
This file is a Python script that expands the date variable in XML files,
although this behavior has fallen out of favor in SLFS but remains strong in
BLFS. Rarely needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.1.13. `general.ent`
This file is an XML entity file containing important variables used by the
book's XML and also includes different entity files. This file needs to get
updated every stable release.
#### 3.1.1.14. `generate-doc-stub.py`
This symlink points to `contributor-tools/docstubgen/docstubgen`, whose purpose
has already been described above in section 3.1.1.3.
#### 3.1.1.15. `git-version.sh`
This file is a shell script that generates the version and revision the book
should be rendered for, and outputs according text to `conditional.ent` and
`version.ent`. Rarely needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.1.16. `gnome.ent`
This file is an XML entity file that contains GNOME specific entities used by a
small selection of XML files. Rarely needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.1.17. `obfuscate.sh`
This file is a shell script that obfuscates email addresses in XML and HTML
files. Rarely needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.1.18. `packages.ent`
This file is an XML entity file that contains version variables. Certain
version variables are used by certain packages, although usually there will
only be one variable used by a given package. For example, &hyprutils-version;
is used by hyprutils. These variables determine the package's version.
Whenever a package needs an update, this file needs to get edited.
#### 3.1.1.19. `tidy.conf`
This file is a configuration file used by **tidy**. Rarely needs to get
updated.
#### 3.1.1.20. `xent.ent`
This file is an XML entity file that contains content that gets repeated
throughout the book. Update or add to as needed.

***

### 3.1.2. Book files and directories
Now that the internals are covered, it's time to cover the files that have a
stronger impact of the final rendered product. Here are the following files and
directories at the root of the source:

- `appendices/`
- `binary/`
- `book/`
- `emu/`
- `gen-game/`
- `general/`
- `introduction/`
- `svr4/`
- `wm/`
- `changelog.xml` (link to `introduction/welcome/changelog.xml`)
- `index.xml`

Some packages in the directories may need to get updated whenever a version
gets updated. Unlike BLFS, SLFS does not use md5sums, SBUs, or size. It does
use links and package versions, however. The links have to be correct, as well
as the instructions.

#### 3.1.2.1. `appendices/`
This directory contains XML files rendered at the end of the book. Rarely needs
to get updated.
#### 3.1.2.2. `binary/`
This directory contains XML files rendered for the Binary Support part.
Contains packages.
#### 3.1.2.3. `book/`
This directory contains XML files rendered at the beginning of the book. Rarely
needs to get updated.
#### 3.1.2.4. `emu/`
This directory contains XML files rendered for the Emulators part. Contains
packages.
#### 3.1.2.5. `gen-game/`
This directory contains XML files rendered for the General Gaming Software
part. Contains packages.
#### 3.1.2.6. `general/`
This directory contains XML files rendered for the General Libraries and
Utilities part. Contains packages.
#### 3.1.2.7. `introduction/`
This directory contains XML files rendered for the Introduction part of the
book. Contains `welcome/changelog.xml` which does need to get updated often.
Rest of the XML files usually don't.
#### 3.1.2.8. `svr4/`
This directory contains XML files rendered for the SVR4 part of the book.
Contains packages.
#### 3.1.2.9. `wm/`
This directory contains XML files rendered for the Window Managers,
Compositors, and Desktop Environments part. Contains packages.
#### 3.1.2.10. `changelog.xml`
This symlink points to `introduction/welcome/changelog.xml`, an XML file that
details changes made to the book since the last release. All changes should be
noted here, and the message should be similar or exact to the git commit
message that details the commit. `->` should be `-&gt;` in the XML file. For
the user in the changelog entry, it'd be appreciated if it matched with your
Github username. If you are a BLFS/LFS editor, you can also use the handle you
use for LFS/BLFS. Changes that shouldn't have a changelog entry are simple
typos, grammar changes, fixing rendering failures, wording, etc. (small
changes) and internal changes (not counting changes to `packages.ent`, those
count as updates that need to have a changelog entry).
#### 3.1.2.11. `index.xml`
This file is an XML file that determines which main XML files to include for
rendering. Think of it as the master XML file, or your `int main()`, but for
XML. Rarely needs changing unless a new section is added.

***

### 3.1.3. Standards
Beyond knowing where files are, the text inside those files also counts, and
there are standards to keep in mind.

1. No tabs except in the Makefile. Use spaces. Unless after a sentence, use two
at a time.
2. Keep character count on any given line a maximum of 80 characters and do not
go over that limit. This keeps the XML from getting ugly and out of hand. There
are situations where you can't keep it under that limit, such as using links or
code blocks. That is fine. But if you can help it, please keep under the 80
character limit.
3. Use oxford commas (subject1, subject2, and subject3) instead of
(subject1, subject2 and subject3).
4. Edit `changelog.xml` as necessary. See section 3.1.2.9.

## 3.2. Making an update
First, you're going to need
[Git](https://linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/stable/general/git.html) in order
to clone, pull, and push. Once you have it installed, you are going to need to
fork this repository to your Github account. Once you have it forked, you are
going to need to clone that fork:
```Bash
git clone https://github.com/<username>/slfs
```
Now that you have cloned the repo, you can make changes to the default branch
`trunk`, or you can make another one:
```Bash
git checkout --track origin -b <branch_name>
```
Now make an edit as you see fit. If it isn't an edit to an internal file that
isn't `packages.ent` or fixing a simple typo, make a changelog entry (see
section 3.1.2.9). Once you have made one, copy the text you made, reformat that
text you copied into plain text that won't get messed up in a git commit
message, then do a test render. See if the render looks fine, if it rendered.
Afterwards, do a `git status` to see you edited the correct files, haven't made
any new ones that shouldn't have been made, then `git add` those files.
Afterwards, do
```Bash
git commit -m "<copied_text>" -m "<optional_message>"
```
Now do:
```Bash
git push origin <branch_name>
```

## 3.3. Making a PR
Now over on Github on your repo, make a Pull/Merge Request that merges into
`glfs-book:trunk`. If it has a conflict, repeat section 3.2. to fix those
conflicts before making the PR/MR. If all looks good, submit it.

There may be changes requested. This is okay and is routine. Repeat section
3.2. as necessary and Github will automatically pull in the new changes to the
PR. Rinse and repeat until the PR is merged.

After that, pat yourself on the back, as you are now a SLFS contributor.
